# Maven Tech Sales Insights - Dashboard

### Dashboard Link : https://app.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiMjc2ZjhhNDMtNDE4Mi00MTMwLTljODAtMjc2OWI5MjY3YjhiIiwidCI6ImRmODY3OWNkLWE4MGUtNDVkOC05OWFjLWM4M2VkN2ZmOTVhMCJ9

## Problem Statement

This dashboard helps the sales managers to track their team's quarterly performance. The data contains B2B sales opportunities from a CRM database for a fictitious company that sells computer hardware, including information on accounts, products, sales teams, and sales opportunities.

### Steps followed 

- Step 1 : Load data into Power BI Desktop, dataset is a csv file.
- Step 2 : Open power query editor & in view tab under Data preview section, check "column distribution", "column quality" & "column profile" options.
- Step 3 : Also since by default, profile will be opened only for 1000 rows so you need to select "column profiling based on entire dataset".
- Step 4 : The data is all set to create the report.

- Step 5 : Visual filters (Slicers) were added for three fields named "Region", "Date" & "Location".
- Step 6 : Six card visuals were added to the canvas,  representing total deals, total revenue, Total Employees, Companies, Deals won, Deals lost.
- Step 7 : A bar chart was added to the report design area representing top 6 sales agents according to the revenue generation. 

- Step 8 : Another bar chart was added to the report design area representing the deal stage, whether the deal is won, lost, engaging or prospecting

- Step 9 : A pie chart chart was also added to the report design area representing managers and total revenue generated by them.

- Step 10 : Four other bar charts were also added to the report design area representing Total revenue by products, Number of products sold by each manager, Total revenue generated by each sector and Deal stage by each sector.

- Step 11 : A tree map was also added to the report design area indicating number of companies each sector is holding.

- Step 12 : A line chart indicating revenue generated each month and quarter is also added to the report.

# Insights

A  report consisting of two pages was created on Power BI Desktop & it was then published to Power BI Service.

Following inferences can be drawn from the dashboard;

   Total number of deals = 9 K

   Number of Companies = 85

   Total revenue generated = 10 M 

   Number of employees = 396 K

   Deals won = 48.16 %

   Deals lost = 28.1 %

   Deals engaging = 18.06 %

   Deals prospecting = 5.68 %

   Software sector generated the highest revenue = 31 K

   Retail sector holds the highest number of companies = 17

   Revenue peaked at the month of June with a total of 1.34 M

   The product that generated the highest revenue was GTX Pro with a sum of 3.5 M.
